.TH SIGNET 1 "July 2026" "signet-gateway 0.1.0b1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
signet \- provider-neutral MCP human approval gateway
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B signet setup
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B signet
.RI { manage | status | doctor | backup | restore | upgrade | uninstall }
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B signet provider
.RI { setup | status | enable | disable }
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B signet setup
plans, installs, and resumes a private production assembly. Providers and generated
Hermes MCP entries are disabled by default. Setup stores workflow secrets outside its
configuration in the operating-system keyring, persists a mode-0600 journal, installs
loopback-only services, and can prepare multiple named Hermes profiles without
restarting Hermes.
.PP
The default root is
.IR ~/.local/share/signet .
Setup refuses ambiguous or foreign resources rather than adopting them.
.SH SETUP OPTIONS
.TP
.B --plan
Print a read-only JSON plan.
.TP
.BI --origin " HTTPS_ORIGIN"
Use one canonical private HTTPS origin. If omitted, derive
https://NODE.ts.net:8443 from Tailscale.
.TP
.BI --owner " USER_ID"
Canonical owner ID. Default: user:owner.
.TP
.BI --profile " NAME"
Hermes profile to prepare. Repeat for multiple profiles. If omitted, discover named
profiles under ~/.hermes/profiles.
.TP
.BI --policy-mode " MODE"
Select the initial policy mode: deny, direct, approval, or approval_with_edit.
Default: deny.
.TP
.B --yes
Confirm a reviewed plan non-interactively.
.TP
.B --no-open-browser
Print the owner setup URL without asking the operating system to open it. This may be
used when resuming a failed browser handoff.
.TP
.B --rollback
Resume reverse-order rollback of setup-owned resources.
.TP
.BI --root " PATH"
Use an absolute setup root instead of the default.
.SH LIFECYCLE COMMANDS
.TP
.B signet manage {start|stop|restart|status}
Operate the exact installed launchd or systemd user services.
.TP
.B signet status
Print persisted setup, service, and production readiness metadata without secrets.
.TP
.B signet doctor
Check journal, config, keyring references, service definitions, and Hermes entries.
.TP
.B signet backup [--destination PATH]
Create and verify an encrypted backup.
.TP
.B signet restore BUNDLE
Verify and decrypt a backup into a new staging directory. Active state is not replaced.
.TP
.B signet upgrade
Create a backup, then apply migrations from the already-installed reviewed package.
.TP
.B signet uninstall
Remove exact service and Hermes integration resources while preserving production data.
.TP
.B signet uninstall --purge
Back up first, then remove setup-owned active data and runtime secrets. The backup key
and backup directory are retained.
.SH PROVIDER COMMANDS
.TP
.B signet provider setup fastmail --from ADDRESS --to ADDRESS
Prompt for a Fastmail API token, send one test email, save the generated policy and
schemas, and enable the configured provider rollout.
.TP
.B signet provider setup whatsapp --to PHONE_OR_JID
On Linux x86_64, install the pinned wacli release if needed, pair the account, send
one test message, and enable the configured provider rollout.
.TP
.B signet provider status
Show platform support, configuration, credential readiness, and rollout state.
.TP
.B signet provider {enable|disable} {fastmail|whatsapp}
Start or stop the shared rollout for all configured providers.
.SH HERMES
Setup adds a distinct profile-scoped caller token and disabled signet_approvals,
signet_fastmail, and signet_whatsapp MCP entries to each selected profile. Tokens are
written to private profile environment files and are never printed or accepted on
argv. Review the entries, enable approvals and configured providers, then run
/reload-mcp in that profile. Signet never restarts the Hermes gateway.
.SH BROWSER SETUP
The public /setup URL is printed before browser launch. The one-time capability is
placed in a URL fragment, removed from browser history before submission, retained in
the operating-system keyring for crash recovery, and omitted from the setup journal
and normal output. Password setup supports multiple named TOTP and passkey
authenticators; passkeys require a real browser ceremony at the final HTTPS origin.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/signet/.setup-journal.json
Atomic mode-0600 setup journal.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/signet/production.json
Provider-disabled production configuration created by setup.
.TP
.I ~/Library/LaunchAgents/ai.hermes.signet.{mcp,web}.plist
macOS user services.
.TP
.I ~/.config/systemd/user/signet-{mcp,web}.service
Linux systemd user services.
.SH SECURITY
The MCP listener remains loopback-only. Automatic Tailscale setup manages only a free
HTTPS 8443 Serve listener and refuses Funnel. Provider enablement is a separate
reviewed cutover. Do not paste tokens, capabilities, authenticator values, or provider
credentials into arguments, logs, chat, or documentation.
.SH SEE ALSO
The packaged setup guide is docs/setup.md in the source distribution and online
project documentation. See also docs/security-model.md and
docs/production-connectors.md.
